now Naaman commander of the army of the
king of Syria was a great and honorable
man
in the eyes of his master because by him
the Lord had given victory to Syria he
was also a mighty man of Valor but a
leper and the Syrians had gone out on
raids and had brought back captive a
young girl from the Land of Israel
she waited on Naamans wife then she said
to her mistress
if only my master were with the Prophet
who was in Samaria for he would heal him
of his leprosy and Naaman went in and
told his master thus and thus said the
girl who is from the land of Israel then
the king of Syria said go now I will
send a letter to the king of Israel so
he departed and took with him ten
talents of silver six thousand shekels
of gold and ten changes of clothing then
he brought the letter to the king of
Israel which said now be advised when
this letter comes to you that I have
sent name and my servant to you that you
may heal him of his leprosy and it
happened when the king of Israel read
the letter that he tore his clothes and
said am i God to kill and make alive
that this man sends a man to me to heal
him of his leprosy
therefore please consider and see how he
seeks a quarrel with me so it was when
Elisha the man of God heard that the
king of Israel had torn his clothes that
he sent to the king
[Music]
why have you torn your clothes please
let him come to me and he shall know
that there is a prophet in Israel then
Naaman went with his horses and chariot
and he stood at the door of Elijah's
house and Elijah sent a messenger to him
go and wash in the Jordan seven times
and your flesh shall be restored to you
and you shall be clean but Naaman became
furious and went away
indeed I said to myself he will surely
come out to me and stand and call on the
name of the Lord his God and wave his
hand over the place and heal the leprosy
are not a benign and a far part of the
rivers of Damascus better than all the
waters of Israel could I not wash in
them and be clean so he turned and went
away in a rage and his sevenths came
near and spoke to him my father if the
prophet had told you to do something
great would you not have done it how
much more then when he says to you wash
and be clean so he went down and dipped
seven times in the Jordan according to
the saying of the man of God and his
flesh was restored like the flesh of a
little child and he was clean and he
returned to the man of God he and all
his aides and came and stood before him
indeed now I know that there is no God
in all the earth except in Israel now
therefore please take a gift from your
servant as the Lord lives before whom I
stand I will receive nothing and he
urged him to take it but he refused then
if not please let your servant be given
to mule loads of Earth for your servant
will no longer offer either burnt
offering or sacrifice to other gods but
to the Lord
yet and this thing may the Lord pardon
your servant when my master goes into
the temple of women to worship there and
he leans on my hand when I vowed to
hound in a temple of women
may the Lord please pardon your servant
and this thing go in peace so he
departed from him a short distance but
jaha's I the servant of Elijah the man
of God said look my master has spared
namin this Syrian while not receiving
from his hands what he brought but as
the Lord lives I will run after him and
take something from him so gay haze I
pursued now when a man saw him running
after him he got down from the chariot
to meet him is all well all is well my
master has sent me saying indeed just
now the two young men of the sons of the
prophets have come to me from the
mountains of Ephraim please and give
them a talent of silver and two changes
of garments please take two talents and
he urged him and bound two talents of
silver in two bags with two changes of
garments and handed them to two of his
servants and they carried them on ahead
of him when he came to the Citadel he
took them from their hand and stored
them away in the house then he let the
men go and they departed now he went in
and stood before his master
Elijah said to him where did you go gay
haze I your servant did not go anywhere
did not my heart go with you when the
man turned back from his chariot to meet
you is it time to receive money and to
receive clothing olive groves and
vineyards sheep and oxen male and female
servants
therefore the leprosy of Mammon shall
cling to you and your descendants
forever and he went out from his
presence leprous as white as snow
you